Registry mvp docs (#689)
wandb/docs: docs/guides/registry/create_collection.md

---
displayed_sidebar: default
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Create a collection

Create a collection within a registry to organize your artifacts. A *collection* is a set of linked artifact versions in a registry. Each collection represents a distinct task or use case and serves as a container for a curated selection of artifact versions related to that task.

> For example, the proceeding image shows a registry named "Forecast". Within the "Forecast" registry there are two collections called "LowLightPedRecog-YOLO" and "TextCat". "LowLightPedRecog-YOLO" collection contains artifacts from machine learning experiments that uses the You Only Look Once YOLO detection algorithm.  Whereas the "TextCat" collection contains artifacts from [INSERT]. 

Reviewer: can we had an example from the model registry, not forecast? We have a bunch of good LLM task names in the reviewco registry - https://wandb.ai/reviewco/registry/model?selectionPath=reviewco%2Fmodel-registry%2FFinetuned-Review-Autocompletion&view=versions

Author: I'm limited to the ones we have in the mock up UI...I want to show what we describe

Reviewer: ah yes gotcha - see above [comment](https://github.com/wandb/docodile/pull/689#discussion_r1648363619) on using the live beta

Author: @noaleetz Left a note to create a new diagram for "Create a collection" https://wandb.atlassian.net/browse/DOCS-887

[Didn't have time to link an artifacts/have artifact type available to create a collection w/in the live demos.]

![](/images/registry/what_is_collection.png)

> ## Create a collection within a core registry

Reviewer: creating a collection for core and custom registries is the same. we should only show this once. 

let's make sure there is a gif associated with the workflow (in general anything that has a long list of instructions I think can be replaced by a gif, or at the very least be accompanied by a gif). These lists are really long and clunky to read, most users probably skip them.

The following steps describe how to create a collection within a core registry.

1. Navigate to the Registries App in the W&B App UI.
2. Select a core registry.
3. Click on the **Create collection** button in the upper right hand corner.
4. Provide a name for your collection in the **Name** field. 
5. Select a type from the **Type** dropdown.

> 5. Optionally provide a description of your collection in the **Description** field.

Reviewer: do we need the optional steps here?

6. Optionally add one or more tags in the **Tags** field. 
7. Click **Link version**.
8. From the **Project** dropdown, select the project where your artifact is stored.
9. From the **Artifact** collection dropdown, select your artifact.

> 10. From the **Version** dropdown, select the artifact version you want to link to your collection.

Reviewer: similar to current model registry, we should have a section on linking to a registry. There are multiple ways to do this, and this list only covers one way. 

We can borrow some of the explanations from existing linking to the model registry docs. We should make sure to emphasize that linking == publishing to the registry, and bring the version from a more private, project level scope, to this shared org level space (any users w access to the registry can access the linked version)

Reviewer: In the same 'linking to a registry' guide we should explain the term source vs linked artifact version

Author: Makes sense. I'll add that to the next draft.

Author: Added new page" https://docs-beta.wandb.ai/guides/registry/link_version

11. Click on the **Create collection** button.

:::note

> Administrators of a registry can optionally add additional artifact types that the registry accepts. Note that you can not remove artifacts types from a core registry once they are added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Registry admins can add additional accepted artifact types by navigating to the registry settings. Once an accepted type is added to the settings, it cannot be removed.
```

---
displayed_sidebar: default
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Create a collection

Create a collection in a registry to organize your machine learning models. A *collection* is a set of linked artifact versions in a registry. Each collection represents a distinct task or use case and serves as a container for a curated selection of artifact versions related to that task.

![](/images/registry/what_is_collection.png)

For example, the preceding image shows a registry name **Forecast**. Within the Forecast registry there are two collections called **LowLightPedRecog-YOLO** and **TextCat**.

:::info
Permitted artifact types for a collection are configured when a registry is created. This means that, depending on the registry where you create a collection, you may or may not be able to specify which types of artifacts can be added to that collection. For more information about artifact types, see [LINK].
:::

<Tabs
  defaultValue="alltypes"
  values={[

>     {label: 'Unrestricted collection types', value: 'alltypes'},

Author: Comment to resolve: https://github.com/wandb/docodile/pull/687#discussion_r1614029117

Reviewer: is there a specific screenshot from the prototypes you can share of what you're referring to here? is this a custom registry? or is then when user selects the option of all types in the registry settings?
